
-----------------------------------------Cloud----------------------------------------------------

Question is Why cloud?
	
	Small as well as large IT companies, follow the traditional methods to provide the IT infrastructure. 
	That means for any IT company, we need a Server Room that is the basic need of IT companies.

	In that server room, there should be a database server, mail server, networking, firewalls, routers, 
	modem, switches, QPS (Query Per Second means how much queries or load will be handled by the server), 
	configurable system, high net speed, and the maintenance engineers.

	To establish such IT infrastructure, we need to spend lots of money. To overcome all these problems 
	and to reduce the IT infrastructure cost, Cloud Computing comes into existence.



	Cloud computing is a term referred to storing and accessing data over the internet. 
	It doesn't store any data on the hard disk of your personal computer. In cloud computing, you can access data from a remote server.
	eg. Dropbox or Google Drive etc.

	For businesses, switching to cloud computing removes some IT costs and overhead.
	they no longer need to update and maintain their own servers, as the cloud vendor they are using will do that. 

	Cloud computing is possible because of a technology called virtualization. Virtualization allows for the creation of a simulated, 
	digital-only "virtual" computer that behaves as if it were a physical computer with its own hardware.
	The technical term for such a computer is virtual machine.


What are services provided by AWS?

	Amazon Web Services offers a broad set of global cloud-based products including compute, storage, databases, analytics, 
	networking, mobile, developer tools, management tools, IoT, security and enterprise applications. 
	These services help organizations move faster, lower IT costs, and scale.



----------------------------Characteristics----------------------------------------

1) Agility

	The cloud works in a distributed computing environment. It shares resources among users and works very fast.

2) High availability and reliability

	The availability of servers is high and more reliable because the chances of infrastructure failure are minimum.

3) High Scalability

	Cloud offers "on-demand" provisioning of resources on a large scale, without having engineers for peak loads.

4) Multi-Sharing

	With the help of cloud computing, multiple users and applications can work more efficiently with cost reductions by sharing common infrastructure.

5) Device and Location Independence

	Cloud computing enables the users to access systems using a web browser regardless of their location or what device they use 
	e.g. PC, mobile phone, etc. As infrastructure is off-site (typically provided by a third-party) and accessed via the Internet, users can connect from anywhere.

6) Maintenance

	Maintenance of cloud computing applications is easier, since they do not need to be installed on each user's computer 
	and can be accessed from different places. So, it reduces the cost also.

7) Low Cost

	By using cloud computing, the cost will be reduced because to take the services of cloud computing, 
	IT company need not to set its own infrastructure and pay-as-per usage of resources.

8) Services in the pay-per-use mode

	Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) are provided to the users so that they can access services on the cloud 
	by using these APIs and pay the charges as per the usage of services.



---------------------cloud deployment models------------------------------------------

Private cloud:

	A private cloud is a server, data center, or distributed network wholly dedicated to one organization.

Public cloud: 

	A public cloud is a service run by an external vendor that may include servers in one or multiple data centers. 
	Unlike a private cloud, public clouds are shared by multiple organizations.

Hybrid cloud: 
	
	Hybrid cloud deployments combine public and private clouds, and may even include on-premises legacy servers. 
	An organization may use their private cloud for some services and their public cloud for others, 
	or they may use the public cloud as backup for their private cloud.


--------------------------Advantages-----------------------------------

1) Back-up and restore data-

	Once the data is stored in the cloud, it is easier to get back-up and restore that data using the cloud.

2) Improved collaboration-

	Cloud applications improve collaboration by allowing groups of people to quickly and easily share information in the cloud via shared storage.

3) Excellent accessibility-

	Cloud allows us to quickly and easily access store information anywhere, anytime in the whole world, using an internet connection. 
	An internet cloud infrastructure increases organization productivity and efficiency by ensuring that our data is always accessible.

4) Low maintenance cost-

	Cloud computing reduces both hardware and software maintenance costs for organizations.

5) Mobility-

	Cloud computing allows us to easily access all cloud data via mobile.

6) IServices in the pay-per-use model-

	Cloud computing offers Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) to the users for access services on the cloud and pays the charges as per the usage of service.

7) Unlimited storage capacity-

	Cloud offers us a huge amount of storing capacity for storing our important data such as documents, images, audio, video, etc. in one place.

8) Data security-

	Data security is one of the biggest advantages of cloud computing. Cloud offers many advanced features related to security and ensures that data is securely stored and handled.


----------------------------EC-2-----------------------------------------------------

Elastic Compute Cloud-
	provides secure and resizable compute capacity in cloud.
	
	scaling.
	
	integrated with other services.

	pay for what you use.
	
	flexibility to choose OS.(windows , linux, etc.)

	EC-2 works with amazon(VPC) virtual private cloud to provide secure network resourses.

	
